#summary The details and implementation of the items in the game.
[http://code.google.com/p/audiabolikal/wiki/Main Main]

= Introduction =

The items of the game make up the soldiers (WikiSoldier), otherwise they would be nothing. This page (and sub-pages) detail how the items are made, and what attributes they have. Items can be defined by 3 things: a csv file, a mesh file and a texture file. The csv file contains entries for each item, and the mesh and texture files cover the item appearances. The csv file is here: WikiItemDefs.

= Item Types and Generation =

A soldier is made up of several items:
 * Headgear. This can include helmets, hair, heavy beards, basically anything that goes on a person's head. Headgear behaves like a typical item, with DEF (and maybe ATK) with variable condition.
 * Face. Though it's not strictly an item, it can be treated and generated like other items. A face will probably not have ATK, DEF or condition, though it can have a single value for purchasing 'plastic-surgery' for your soldiers. Generally, all faces will share the same mesh, but will have multiple textures. A face can also determine the base skin colour for a soldier.
 * Aura. Much like a face, an aura doesn't have condition, though it may have small effects on ATK or DEF, based on colour. Essentially an aura is just the colour of magic attacks, though auras may have different patterns (_ala_ Tekken 6). Like a face, auras have a single value, though these will be quite steep and perhaps have pre-requisites.
 * Attire. Attire is the main appearance of a soldier, as it covers the majority of the body. Attire is simply the torso, arms, and pants of a soldier, though this could perhaps be split up into segments, depending on how the project is. Attire can be a multitude of things, basically whatever is wearable. Suits, Armour, Gowns, Physical mutations... As with headgear, attire has variable ATK, DEF and condition.
 * Footwear. The footwear could possibly be combined with attire, but for now it remains separate.
 * Weapon/s. Weapons determine the stance and behaviour of a soldier. See subsection for details.




== Weapon ==

A weapon/s can be of four separate types: One-handed, Two-handed (this may have to be split up for hand placement), Dual-wielded, or Sword and shield. The weapon type determines the animations of the soldier, and how the attacks look.

The inspiration for how a weapon looks comes from Disgaea, where the character stance changes (I think) with different weapon types.

When a weapon is designed, its mesh is designed to stick to a specific guideline of where the hands are placed. Generally, a one-handed weapon is handled in the same manner, held in the right at the base in a vertical-ish manner.

As noted above two-handed may be more tricky, as the difference between holding a bastard sword/baseball bat and a bo staff/polearm is significant.

Dual-wielding is essentially just holding two one-handed weapons, though it may not necessarily be two weapons. For instance, chain blades could be dual-wielded.

Sword and shield is merely the name of the stance. It could be lollipop and tyre. But the stance remains the same. Typically these weapons will have a higher DEF (usually at the cost of some other attribute).


= General Item =

An item is defined by a general definition (or mould) of item, be it headgear, weapon, etc. This definition defines several things:
 * The base name for the item (i.e. axe).
 * The genres the item relates to and how much it relates to them.
 * The colours an item can take on. Note that an item can be of multiple colours, though an individual item will remain a single colour.
 * The general value of an item. Note this isn't the value of a normal item of that type, it relates to the attributes of an item. So an item with ATK:10 and DEF:10 with VALUE:10 will have {{{(10 + 10) * 10 = 200}}} value in a simple multiplication value calculation (this is subject to change).
 * The base attack, defense, hit and evasion with variance values. This means that an item will have ATK, DEF, HIT and EVA equal to these base values +- the variance in a normal distribution. Assuming that a normal distribution has maximum 2.3 SDs, this will result in an item at it's worst 2.3 variances from the base value. For example, an _Axe_ (typically varianced) with BaseATK:40 and VarATK:15 could generate an _Axe_ with ATK:10 (-2 SDs from base) or perhaps ATK:70.
 * The mesh and texture of the item. This can also be split into male and female parts too.



= Individual Item =

Much of this information only applies to the general item, so when an individual item is generated, its values are set to concrete values, based on the mould.

Furthermore individual items have levels, which allow a series of stronger items to be created through levels. Though it is unclear currently if items can be levelled _ala_ Disgaea, but they can be generated at a set level.

== Item Condition and Prefixes ==

As in the example with the _Axe_, the ATK value is set when an individual item is generated. To reflect these set values and give the user an instant idea of what an item's worth is like, the item's name is given a prefix (*and perhaps a suffix later: _Flimsy Axe of Evil_*) which gives an idea of the item's condition. So an _Axe_ of base values is simply called _Ordinary Axe_, whereas a good _Axe_ may be called _Enduring Axe_, and a bad _Axe_: _Flimsy Axe_.

Because items have an initial condition, an optional gameplay feature is to include item durability such that the items degrade with use, requiring the player to repair/replace.

Though colour is determined by the mould, the saturation of the colour can be effected by the item condition. An item of good or average durability will have the regular colour, but items in worse condition will have a progressively more faded appearance, signifying usage. Of course, this doesn't work for white items, but it may be a handy effect.


== Suffixes ==

Suffixes are based on the Hit and Evasion attributes. Not every item will use these attributes but those that do, and have relatively high or low attribute values in relation to the base attribute will have a suffix which reflects this. For example, a _Sword_ with high hit (relative to base hit) could be suffixed _Sword of Sure-strike_. Conversely, a low hit could be suffixed _Sword of Clumsiness_.

Suffixes differ from prefixes in that both Hit and Evasion have individual strong and weak suffixes, as opposed to Attack and Defense sharing the same stroing and weak prefixes. This is because Hit and Evasion are 'secondary' attributes, whereas a Strong Helmet implies the armour of the helmet is strong, not the attack.


== Levelling ==
An item has a level, increasing the strength of the item's effectiveness. Each attribute of an item is increased with each level, even attributes with no base or variance.

The levelling formula per level is as follows:
attribute += B × base + M × variance × |gauss|
where B = 0.1 and M = 0.2. Also, if this gain is less than M, it is set to M.

A level 2 _Axe_ with base attack 40, variance 15, and level 1 attack 56 could have an attack of:
56 += 0.1 × 40 + 0.2 × 15 × 0.84
56 += 4 + 2.52
= 62.52


= Item Genre =

As stated earlier, items have genres tied to them. This dynamic basically defines how soldiers are created. For instance, _Axe_ could have 'metal':1.0, 'rap':0.5, 'traditional':1.0. Of course, an item need not be so general. _Mohawk_ could have 'metal':0.2 and 'punk':1.0. The integration of items into their appropriate genres and sub-genres is handled in the initialisation phase, so when it comes time to generate an item of a particular genre, the representative items will be present.